[Workers AI] Using BigQuery with Workers AI (#17725)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers-ai/tutorials/using-bigquery-with-workers-ai.mdx

			headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" },
		});
	},
};
```

If you wish to deploy this Worker, you can do so by running `npx wrangler deploy`:

```sh
Total Upload: <size_of_your_worker> KiB / gzip: <compressed_size_of_your_worker> KiB
Uploaded <name_of_your_worker> (x sec)
Deployed <name_of_your_worker> triggers (x sec)
  https://<your_public_worker_endpoint>
Current Version ID: <worker_script_version_id>
```

This will create a public endpoint that you can use to access the Worker globally. Please keep this in mind when using production data to make sure to include additional access controls in place.

## Conclusion

In this tutorial, you've learnt how to integrate Google BigQuery and Cloudflare Workers by creating a GCP service account key and storing part of it as Worker Secrets. This was later imported in the code and by using the `jose` npm library, you created a JSON Web Token to authenticate the API query to BigQuery.

Once you obtained the results, some formatting was applied to them to later be passed to generative AI models via Workers AI to generate tags and to perform sentiment analysis on the extracted data.

## Next Steps

> If instead of displaying the results of ingesting the data to the AI model in a browser, your workflow requires fetching and store data (for example in [R2](/r2/) or [D1](/d1/)) on regular intervals, you may want to consider adding a [scheduled handler](/workers/runtime-apis/handlers/scheduled/) for this Worker. It allows triggering the Worker with a predefined cadence via a [Cron Trigger](/workers/configuration/cron-triggers/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If, instead of displaying the results of ingesting the data to the AI model in a browser, your workflow requires fetching and store data (for example in [R2](/r2/) or [D1](/d1/)) on regular intervals, you may want to consider adding a [scheduled handler](/workers/runtime-apis/handlers/scheduled/) for this Worker. It allows triggering the Worker with a predefined cadence via a [Cron Trigger](/workers/configuration/cron-triggers/).
```

---
updated: 2024-10-21
difficulty: Beginner
content_type: 📝 Tutorial
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Using BigQuery with Workers AI
products:
  - Workers
  - Workers AI
tags:
  - AI
languages:
  - JavaScript
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

> ## Introduction

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Tempted to say we don't need this.

Author: Yeah true

The easiest way to get started with [Workers AI](/workers-ai/) is to try it out in the [Multi-modal Playground](https://multi-modal.ai.cloudflare.com/) and the [LLM playground](https://playground.ai.cloudflare.com/). If you decide that you want to integrate your code with Workers AI, you may then decide to then use its [REST API endpoints](/workers-ai/get-started/rest-api/) or via a [Worker binding](/workers-ai/configuration/bindings/).

But, what about the data? What if what you want these models to ingest data that is stored outside Cloudflare?

In this tutorial, you will learn how to bring data from Google BigQuery to a Cloudflare Worker so that it can be used as input for Workers AI models.

## Prerequisites

> You will be needing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need:
```

- A [Cloudflare Worker](/workers/) project running a [Hello World script](/workers/get-started/guide/).
- A Google Cloud Platform [service account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-accounts-create#iam-service-accounts-create-console) with an [associated key](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/keys-create-delete#iam-service-account-keys-create-console) file downloaded that has read access to BigQuery.
- Access to a BigQuery table with some test data that allows you to create a [BigQuery Job Query](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/rest/v2/jobs/query). For this tutorial it is recommended you that you create your own table as [sampled tables](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/public-data#sample_tables), unless cloned to your own GCP namespace, won't allow you to run job queries against them. For this example, the [Hacker News Corpus](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/hacker-news/hacker-news-corpus) was used under its MIT licence.

> ## 1. Setting up your Cloudflare Worker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 1. Set up your Cloudflare Worker
```

> In order to ingest the data into Cloudflare and feed it into Workers AI, you will be using a [Cloudflare Worker](/workers/). If you haven't created one yet, please feel free to review our [tutorial on how to get started](/workers/get-started/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ingest the data into Cloudflare and feed it into Workers AI, you will be using a [Cloudflare Worker](/workers/). If you have not created one yet, please feel free to review our [tutorial on how to get started](/workers/get-started/).
```

After following the steps to create a Worker, you should have the following code in your new Worker project:

```javascript
export default {
	async fetch(request, env, ctx) {
		return new Response("Hello World!");
	},
};
```

If the Worker project has successfully been created, you should also be able to run `npx wrangler dev` in a console to run the Worker locally:

```sh
[wrangler:inf] Ready on http://localhost:8787
```

Open a browser tab at `http://localhost:8787/` to see your deployed Worker. Please note that the port `8787` may be a different one in your case.

You should be seeing `Hello World!` in your browser:

```sh
Hello World!
```

If you are running into any issues during this step, please make sure to review [Worker's Get Started Guide](/workers/get-started/guide/).

## 2. Import GCP Service key into the Worker as Secrets

Now that you have verified that the Worker has been created successfully, you will need to reference the Google Cloud Platform service key created in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section of this tutorial.

> Your downloaded key JSON file from Google Cloud Platform should have the following format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your downloaded JSON key file from Google Cloud Platform should have the following format:
```
Later on, you use `JSON key file` - I also think it reads nicer this way imho

```json
{
	"type": "service_account",
	"project_id": "<your_project_id>",
	"private_key_id": "<your_private_key_id>",
	"private_key": "<your_private_key>",
	"client_email": "<your_service_account_id>@<your_project_id>.iam.gserviceaccount.com",
	"client_id": "<your_oauth2_client_id>",
	"auth_uri": "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth",
	"token_uri": "https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token",
	"auth_provider_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs",
	"client_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/robot/v1/metadata/x509/<your_service_account_id>%40<your_project_id>.iam.gserviceaccount.com",
	"universe_domain": "googleapis.com"
}
```

> For this tutorial, you will only be needing the values of the following fields: `client_email`, `private_key`, `private_key_id` and `project_id`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this tutorial, you will only be needing the values of the following fields: `client_email`, `private_key`, `private_key_id`, and `project_id`.
```

> Instead of storing this information in plain text in the Worker, you will use [Secrets](/workers/configuration/secrets/) to make sure its unencrypted content is only accessible via the Worker itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of storing this information in plain text in the Worker, you will use [secrets](/workers/configuration/secrets/) to make sure its unencrypted content is only accessible via the Worker itself.
```

Import those three values from the JSON file into Secrets, starting with the field from the JSON key file called `client_email`, which we will now call `BQ_CLIENT_EMAIL` (you can use another variable name):

```sh
npx wrangler secret put BQ_CLIENT_EMAIL
```

You will be asked to enter a secret value, which will be the value of the field `client_email` in the JSON key file.

:::note

> Don't include any double quotes in the Secret that you store, as it will be already interpreted as a string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not include any double quotes in the Secret that you store, as the Secret will be already interpreted as a string.
```

:::

If the Secret was uploaded successfully, the following message will be displayed:

```sh
✨ Success! Uploaded secret BQ_CLIENT_EMAIL
```

> Now import the Secrets for the three remaining fields; `private_key`, `private_key_id` and `project_id` as `BQ_PRIVATE_KEY`, `BQ_PRIVATE_KEY_ID` and `BQ_PROJECT_ID` respectively:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now import the secrets for the three remaining fields; `private_key`, `private_key_id`, and `project_id` as `BQ_PRIVATE_KEY`, `BQ_PRIVATE_KEY_ID`, and `BQ_PROJECT_ID` respectively:
```

```javascript
export default {
	async fetch(request, env, ctx) {
		console.log("BQ_CLIENT_EMAIL: ", env.BQ_CLIENT_EMAIL);
		console.log("BQ_PRIVATE_KEY: ", env.BQ_PRIVATE_KEY);
		console.log("BQ_PRIVATE_KEY_ID: ", env.BQ_PRIVATE_KEY_ID);
		console.log("BQ_PROJECT_ID: ", env.BQ_PROJECT_ID);
		return new Response("Hello World!");
	},
};
```

Restart the Worker and run `npx wrangler dev`. You should see that the server now mentions the newly added variables:

```
Using vars defined in .dev.vars
Your worker has access to the following bindings:
- Vars:
  - BQ_CLIENT_EMAIL: "(hidden)"
  - BQ_PRIVATE_KEY: "(hidden)"
  - BQ_PRIVATE_KEY_ID: "(hidden)"
  - BQ_PROJECT_ID: "(hidden)"
[wrangler:inf] Ready on http://localhost:8787
```

If you open `http://localhost:8787` in your browser, you should see the values of the variables show up in your console where the `npx wrangler dev` command is running, while still seeing only the `Hello World!` text in the browser window.

You now have access to the GCP credentials from a Worker. Next, you will install a library to help with the creation of the JSON Web Token needed to interact with GCP's API.

## 3. Install library to handle JWT operations

> To interact with BigQuery's REST API, you will need to generate a [JSON Web Token](https://jwt.io/introduction) to authenticate your requests using the credentials that you've loaded into Worker Secrets in the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To interact with BigQuery's REST API, you will need to generate a [JSON Web Token](https://jwt.io/introduction) to authenticate your requests using the credentials that you have loaded into Worker secrets in the previous step.
```

For this tutorial, you will be using the [jose](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jose?activeTab=readme) library for JWT-related operations. Install it by running the following command in a console:

```sh
npm i jose
```

> To verify that the installation succeeded, you can run `npm list`, which lists all the installed packages and see if the `jose` dependency has been added:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify that the installation succeeded, you can run `npm list`, which lists all the installed packages, and see if the `jose` dependency has been added:
```

```sh
<project_name>@0.0.0
/<path_to_your_project>/<project_name>
├── @cloudflare/vitest-pool-workers@0.4.29
├── jose@5.9.2
├── vitest@1.5.0
└── wrangler@3.75.0
```

## 4. Generate JSON Web Token

> Now that you have installed the `jose` library, it's time to import it and add a function to your code that generates a signed JWT:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have installed the `jose` library, it is time to import it and add a function to your code that generates a signed JWT:
```

```javascript
import * as jose from 'jose';
...
const generateBQJWT = async (aCryptoKey, env) => {
const algorithm = "RS256";
const audience = "https://bigquery.googleapis.com/";
const expiryAt = (new Date().valueOf() / 1000);
	const privateKey = await jose.importPKCS8(env.BQ_PRIVATE_KEY, algorithm);

	// Generate signed JSON Web Token (JWT)
	return new jose.SignJWT()
    	.setProtectedHeader({
        	typ: 'JWT',
        	alg: algorithm,
        	kid: env.BQ_PRIVATE_KEY_ID
    	})
    	.setIssuer(env.BQ_CLIENT_EMAIL)
    	.setSubject(env.BQ_CLIENT_EMAIL)
    	.setAudience(audience)
    	.setExpirationTime(expiryAt)
    	.setIssuedAt()
    	.sign(privateKey)
}

export default {
	async fetch(request, env, ctx) {
       ...
// Create JWT to authenticate the BigQuery API call
    	let bqJWT;
    	try {
        	bqJWT = await generateBQJWT(env);
    	} catch (e) {
        	return new Response('An error has ocurred while generating the JWT', { status: 500 })
    	}
	},
       ...
};

```

> Now that you have created a JWT, it's time to do an API call to BigQuery to fetch some data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have created a JWT, it is time to do an API call to BigQuery to fetch some data.
```

> ## 5. Making authenticated requests to Google BigQuery

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 5. Make authenticated requests to Google BigQuery
```

You will now query the table that you already have created in BigQuery as part of the prerequisites of this tutorial. This example uses a sampled version of the [Hacker News Corpus](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/hacker-news/hacker-news-corpus) that was used under its MIT licence and uploaded to BigQuery.

```javascript
const queryBQ = async (bqJWT, path) => {
	const bqEndpoint = `https://bigquery.googleapis.com${path}`
	// In this example, text is a field in the BigQuery table that is being queried (hn.news_sampled)
	const query = 'SELECT text FROM hn.news_sampled LIMIT 3';
	const response = await fetch(bqEndpoint, {
    	method: "POST",
    	body: JSON.stringify({
        	"query": query
    	}),
    	headers: {
        	Authorization: `Bearer ${bqJWT}`
    	}
	})
	return response.json()
}
...
export default {
	async fetch(request, env, ctx) {
		...
    		let ticketInfo;
    		try {
    		ticketInfo = await queryBQ(bqJWT);
    	} catch (e) {
        	return new Response('An error has occurred while querying BQ', { status: 500 });
    	}
	...
	},
};
```

Having the raw row data from BigQuery means that you can now format it in a JSON-like style up next.

> ## 6. Formatting results from the query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 6. Format results from the query
```

> Now that you have retrieved the data from BigQuery, it's time to note that a BigQuery API response looks something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have retrieved the data from BigQuery, it is time to note that a BigQuery API response looks something like this:
```

```json
{
	...
	"schema": {
    	"fields": [
        	{
            	"name": "title",
            	"type": "STRING",
            	"mode": "NULLABLE"
        	},
        	{
            	"name": "text",
            	"type": "STRING",
            	"mode": "NULLABLE"
        	}
    	]
	},
	...
	"rows": [
    	{
        	"f": [
            	{
                	"v": "<some_value>"
            	},
            	{
                	"v": "<some_value>"
            	}
        	]
    	},
    	{
        	"f": [
            	{
                	"v": "<some_value>"
            	},
            	{
                	"v": "<some_value>"
            	}
        	]
    	},
    	{
        	"f": [
            	{
                	"v": "<some_value>"
            	},
            	{
                	"v": "<some_value>"
            	}
        	]
    	}
	],
	...
}
```

> This format may be a bit harder to read and to work with iterating through results later on in this tutorial. You will now implement a function that maps the schema into each individual value, so the results look as the following instead, each row corresponding to an object within an array:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This format may be difficult to read and to work with when iterating through results, which will go on to do later in this tutorial. So you will now implement a function that maps the schema into each individual value, and the resulting output will be easier to read, as shown below. Each row corresponds to an object within an array.
```

	// Load all fields name and have their index in the array result as their key
	fields.forEach((field, index) => {
    	fieldsByIndex.set(index, field.name)
	})

	// Iterate through rows
	const rowsWithFieldNames = rowsWithoutFieldNames.map(row => {
    	// Per each row represented by an array f, iterate through the unnamed values and find their field names by searching them in the fieldsByIndex.
    	let newRow = {}
    	row.f.forEach((field, index) => {
        	const fieldName = fieldsByIndex.get(index);
        	if (fieldName) {
		// For every field in a row, add them to newRow
            	newRow = ({ ...newRow, [fieldName]: field.v });
        	}
    	})
    	return newRow
	})

	return rowsWithFieldNames
}

export default {
	async fetch(request, env, ctx) {
		...
    	// Transform output format into array of objects with named fields
    	let formattedResults;

    	if ('rows' in ticketInfo) {
        	formattedResults = formatRows(ticketInfo.rows, ticketInfo.schema.fields);
        	console.log(formattedResults)
    	} else if ('error' in ticketInfo) {
        	return new Response(ticketInfo.error.message, { status: 500 })
    	}
	...
	},
};
```

> ## 7. Feeding data into Workers AI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 7. Feed data into Workers AI
```

const getAIGeneratedContent = (data, env, aiHandler) => {
	let results = data?.map(dataPoint => {
    	return aiHandler(dataPoint, env)
	})
	return Promise.all(results)
}
...
export default {
	async fetch(request, env, ctx) {
		...
let summaries, sentimentScores;
    	try {
        	summaries = await getAIGeneratedContent(formattedResults, env, generateTags);
        	sentimentScores = await getAIGeneratedContent(formattedResults, env, generateSentimentScore)
    	} catch {
        	return new Response('There was an error while generating the text summaries or sentiment scores')
    	}
},

formattedResults = formattedResults?.map((formattedResult, i) => {
        	if (sentimentScores[i].response && summaries[i].response) {
            	return {
                	...formattedResult,
                	'sentiment': parseFloat(sentimentScores[i].response).toFixed(2),
                	'tags': summaries[i].response.split(',').map((result) => result.trim())
            	}
        	}
    	}
};

```

Uncomment the following lines from the `wrangler.toml` file in your project:

```toml
[ai]
binding = "AI"
```

> Restart the Worker that is running locally and after doing so, go to your application endpoint:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Restart the Worker that is running locally, and after doing so, go to your application endpoint:
```

```sh
curl http://localhost:8787
```

> It is likely that you will be asked to log in into your Cloudflare account and grant temporary access to Wrangler (the Cloudflare CLI) to use your account when using Worker AI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is likely that you will be asked to log in to your Cloudflare account and grant temporary access to Wrangler (the Cloudflare CLI) to use your account when using Worker AI.
```

> Once you access `http://localhost:8787` you should see a similar output as the following one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you access `http://localhost:8787` you should see an output similar to the following:
```

				env,
				generateTags,
			);
			sentimentScores = await getAIGeneratedContent(
				formattedResults,
				env,
				generateSentimentScore,
			);
		} catch {
			return new Response(
				"There was an error while generating the text summaries or sentiment scores",
			);
		}

		// Add AI summaries and sentiment scores to previous results
		formattedResults = formattedResults?.map((formattedResult, i) => {
			if (sentimentScores[i].response && summaries[i].response) {
				return {
					...formattedResult,
					sentiment: parseFloat(sentimentScores[i].response).toFixed(2),
					tags: summaries[i].response.split(",").map((result) => result.trim()),
				};
			}
		});

		const response = { data: formattedResults };

		return new Response(JSON.stringify(response), {
			headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" },
		});
	},
};
```

If you wish to deploy this Worker, you can do so by running `npx wrangler deploy`:

```sh
Total Upload: <size_of_your_worker> KiB / gzip: <compressed_size_of_your_worker> KiB
Uploaded <name_of_your_worker> (x sec)
Deployed <name_of_your_worker> triggers (x sec)
  https://<your_public_worker_endpoint>
Current Version ID: <worker_script_version_id>
```

> This will create a public endpoint that you can use to access the Worker globally. Please keep this in mind when using production data to make sure to include additional access controls in place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will create a public endpoint that you can use to access the Worker globally. Please keep this in mind when using production data, and make sure to include additional access controls in place.
```

## Conclusion

> In this tutorial, you've learnt how to integrate Google BigQuery and Cloudflare Workers by creating a GCP service account key and storing part of it as Worker Secrets. This was later imported in the code and by using the `jose` npm library, you created a JSON Web Token to authenticate the API query to BigQuery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you have learnt how to integrate Google BigQuery and Cloudflare Workers by creating a GCP service account key and storing part of it as Worker secrets. This was later imported in the code, and by using the `jose` npm library, you created a JSON Web Token to authenticate the API query to BigQuery.
```
